---
layout: post
title:  "Variables & Functions in Tornado Templates"
date:   2012-08-05 09:07:20
tags:   [tornado]
---


* _ (underscore)

    An alias for the locale.translate() function.

* current_user

    The current_user object as returned by RequestHandler.get_current_user().
* datetime

    The datetime module.   Example: {{ datetime.date.today().year }} returns the current year.

* escape
    
    A function that escapes a string so it is valid within XML or XHTML.

* handler

    The request handler that called the self.render function to process the template.  Example: {{handler.static_url(‘foo’)}} will run the static_url function in RequestHandler returning a full URL path, pre-pending static_url.

* json_encode

    A function that JSON-encodes the given Python object.

* locale

    The locale value as returned by RequestHandler.get_user_locale().

* request
    
    The request object that is passed into the Request Handler.

* reverse_url 

    Given a full module and class (myapp.Homepage) it will look at the handler to URI mapping and return the URL for the given class.

* squeeze
  
    A function that replaces all sequences of whitespace chars with a single space.

* static_url

    The value of the static_url property passed in to the application settings.

* url_escape

    A function that returns a valid URL-encoded version of the given value.

* xsrf_form_html

    If using the cross-site forgery protection, this function returns the hidden input field containing the xrsf variable.

From <http://gavinroy.com/tornado-tip-of-the-day-38-variables-exposed-i> .

You can find more in <http://www.tornadoweb.org/documentation/overview.html> .
